The Stock-to-flow ratio is not a new thing, it has been used in the mining industry for gold, silver, and other minerals. This ratio when applied to the Bitcoin domain simply refers to the relationship between the current accessible Bitcoin (stock)  and the amount of Bitcoin being mine per year (flow).

The Bitcoin stock-to-flow model was proposed by Plan B, he noticed that the stock-to-flow ration for bitcoin has been raising with the price of Bitcoin in a kind of locked-step pattern and that is this trend could continue, the stock-to-flow ratio of Bitcoin could be used to predict the price of Bitcoin at a particular point in time since at every point in time the number of accessible Bitcoin is known, and flow only happens once in four years, during halvening. 

This model was produced by fixing a linear regression line on the plot for the price of Bitcoin against stock-to-flow ration. While this idea is great and seems fundamentally correct by using y = mx + b, it makes a very terrible assumption and that is that the price is only a function of the stock-to-flow ratio. This assumption is terrible and will cause the model to fail because it has assumed that demand is infinite and it doesn’t put into account that what fundamentally drives an increase in the price of a commodity is its demand. Assets such as Land have an infinite stock to flow ratio since no new land is being produced but yet the price of and land has continued to increase, hence it’s safe to say that a model that doesn’t put all factors responsible for price into consideration is doomed to fail.


Secondly, using this model, after 5 more halvenings which will take about 20 years, the stock-to-flow ratio for Bitcoin would be around 1600, comparing this value to that of Gold (62) and using this value to predict the price of Bitcoin, it is imperative that the price of Bitcoin would be greater than all the wealth on the planet and that in itself is a reason why this model will fail.

Thirdly, it’s imperative that since stock-to-flow ratio is continually increasing, Bitcoin price too will continually increase and concurrently, the energy needed will continue to increase and due to the fact that this model also propose that the price of Bitcoin would one day converge at infinity, this means that we will need nuclear reactors in order to power Bitcoin and this itself is another reason why this model is doomed to fail.  

Lastly, another reason why this model is doomed to fail is that it doesn’t account for the opposition. While Bitcoin is arguably the most prospering asset on earth, it’s important to remember that while we operate in a decentralized blockchain, we still live in a centralized world, and as Bitcoin continues to become more valuable, it will affect different bodies and persons some of which may happen to be in the government, and who knows what kind of policies would evolve from such. 

Hence, it’s very unlikely that the Bitcoin stock-to-flow model will be successful due to the fact that the model itself is fundamentally flawed.
